How Logs Work

A log is an append-only sequence of records. You append records to the end of the log, and you typically read top to bottom, oldest to newest. When we talk about logs and records in this book, we not talking about any particular type of data. When we append a record to a log, the log **assigns the record a unique and sequential offset** number that acts like the ID for that record. A log is like a table that always orders the records by time and indexes each record by its offset and time created.

Concrete implementations of logs have to deal with us not having disks with infinite space, which means we can't append to the same file forever. **So we split the log into a list of segments**. When the log grows too big, we free up disk space by deleting old segments whose data we've already processed or archived. This cleaning up of old segments can run in a background process while our service can still produce the active (newest) segment and consume from other segments with no, or at least fewer, conflicts where goroutines access the same data.

There's always **one special segment** among the list of segments, and that's the active segment. We call it the active segment because it's only segment we actively write to. When we've filled the active segment, we create a new segment and make it the active segment.

**Each segment comprises a store file an index file**. The segment's store file is where we store the record data; we continually append records to this file. The segment's index file is where we index each record in the store file. The index file speeds up reads because it maps record offset to their position in the store file. Reading a record given its offset is a two-step process; first you get the entry from the index file for the record, which tells you the position of the record in the store file, and then you read the record at that position in the store file. Since the index file requires only two small fields - the offset and stored position of the record - the index file is much smaller than the store file that stores all your record data. Index files are small enough that we can memory-map them and make operations on the file as fast as operating on in-memory data.